README.rst, before:

=============================
mdssdiff
=============================

Report difference between directory tree on a local filesystem and on a remote mass data store. Some rudimentary synching supported.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/coecms/mdssdiff.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/coecms/mdssdiff
.. |codecov.io| image:: https://codecov.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/coverage.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://codecov.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff?branch=master
.. |Code Health| image:: https://landscape.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/master/landscape.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://landscape.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/master
.. |Conda Status| image:: https://circleci.com/gh/coecms/mdssdiff.svg?style=shield
  :target: https://circleci.com/gh/coecms/mdssdiff

Look for differences between local filesystem and its copy on a mass
data store system

The latest version uses the `conda environment
https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/User%20Guides/conda`:

::

    module use /g/data3/hh5/public/modules
    module load python/analysis27

To use the older standalone python version:

::

    module purge
    module use ~access/modules
    module load mdssdiff

Basic usage message:

::

    mdssdiff -h
    usage: mdssdiff [-h] [-v] [-P PROJECT] [-p PATHPREFIX] [-r] [-cr | -cl] [-f]
                       inputs [inputs ...]

    Compare local directories and those on mdss. Report differences

    positional arguments:
      inputs                directories (-r must be specified to recursively descend 
                            into sub-directories)

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -v, --verbose         Increase verbosity
      -P PROJECT, --project PROJECT
                            Project code for mdss (default to $PROJECT)
      -p PATHPREFIX, --pathprefix PATHPREFIX
                            Prefix for mdss path
      -r, --recursive       Recursively descend directories (default False)
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            Operate only on files matching filter

      -cr, --copyremote     Copy over files that are missing on remote (False)
      -cl, --copylocal      Copy over files that are missing on local (False)
      -f, --force           Force copying of different sized files, following --cr
                            or --cl (False)

For example, say you have a personal directory on mdss:

::

    mdss ls -ld personal/me
    drwxrws--- 4 abc123 a00 92 Dec 14  2014 personal/me

And you have used mdss to put another directory there

::

    mdss put -r data personal/me/
    mdss ls -ld personal/me/data
    -rw-r--r-- 1 abc123 a00  1219 Nov  9 12:40 personal/me/data

To check if all the files have been correctly copied:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me data

This will show a list of which files are present/absent on the local or
remote (mdss) filesystem. It will also notify show any files which
differ in size.

To recursively descend directories to check for differences use the
``-r`` flag

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r data

This will also work the other way, and tell you if there are files on
the remote system that are not present locally.

If there are files in your local directory that are not on the mdss, say
you made some new ones or your last mdss copy command failed to complete
cleanly, and you wish to copy them to mdss you can use the
``--copyremote/-cr`` flag:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cr data

Equally, if you have deleted some files in your local directory that you
wish to copy back from mdss you can use the ``--copylocal/-cl`` flag:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cl data

If there are files of unequal size you must specify ``-f/--force`` to
force copying the files, and in this case the decision of which
way the copy will go (from or to mdss) depends on specifying either of
the ``-cr`` or ``-cl`` options. e.g. to copy files of different size from the
local directory to mdss

::

   mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cr -f data

If you want to only compare files matching a certain pattern use the
``-m/--match`` option, which uses shell 
`globbing <http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/globbingref.html>`_
syntax and only files matching that pattern will be checking and optionally copied

::

   mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -m "*.bin" data

Commit message:

Added explicit information to README about not supporting symlinks or globs.

README.rst, after:

=============================
mdssdiff
=============================

Report difference between directory tree on a local filesystem and on a remote mass data store. Some rudimentary synching supported.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/coecms/mdssdiff.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/coecms/mdssdiff
.. |codecov.io| image:: https://codecov.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/coverage.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://codecov.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff?branch=master
.. |Code Health| image:: https://landscape.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/master/landscape.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://landscape.io/github/coecms/mdssdiff/master
.. |Conda Status| image:: https://circleci.com/gh/coecms/mdssdiff.svg?style=shield
  :target: https://circleci.com/gh/coecms/mdssdiff

Look for differences between local filesystem and its copy on a mass
data store system

The latest version uses the `conda environment
https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/User%20Guides/conda`:

::

    module use /g/data3/hh5/public/modules
    module load python/analysis27

To use the older standalone python version:

::

    module purge
    module use ~access/modules
    module load mdssdiff

Basic usage message:

::

    mdssdiff -h
    usage: mdssdiff [-h] [-v] [-P PROJECT] [-p PATHPREFIX] [-r] [-cr | -cl] [-f]
                       inputs [inputs ...]

    Compare local directories and those on mdss. Report differences

    positional arguments:
      inputs                directories (-r must be specified to recursively descend 
                            into sub-directories)

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -v, --verbose         Increase verbosity
      -P PROJECT, --project PROJECT
                            Project code for mdss (default to $PROJECT)
      -p PATHPREFIX, --pathprefix PATHPREFIX
                            Prefix for mdss path
      -r, --recursive       Recursively descend directories (default False)
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            Operate only on files matching filter

      -cr, --copyremote     Copy over files that are missing on remote (False)
      -cl, --copylocal      Copy over files that are missing on local (False)
      -f, --force           Force copying of different sized files, following --cr
                            or --cl (False)

For example, say you have a personal directory on mdss:

::

    mdss ls -ld personal/me
    drwxrws--- 4 abc123 a00 92 Dec 14  2014 personal/me

And you have used mdss to put another directory there

::

    mdss put -r data personal/me/
    mdss ls -ld personal/me/data
    -rw-r--r-- 1 abc123 a00  1219 Nov  9 12:40 personal/me/data

To check if all the files have been correctly copied:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me data

This will show a list of which files are present/absent on the local or
remote (mdss) filesystem. It will also notify show any files which
differ in size.

To recursively descend directories to check for differences use the
``-r`` flag

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r data

This will also work the other way, and tell you if there are files on
the remote system that are not present locally.

Only directories can be specified. Wildcards (globs) are not supported.
This is to prevent confusion and potential sources of error. This tool is designed
to check two identical directory trees, one local and the other remote (on the mdss
tape system). It WILL NOT FOLLOW SYMBOLIC LINKS. Again, this is by design. 

If there are files in your local directory that are not on the mdss, say
you made some new ones or your last mdss copy command failed to complete
cleanly, and you wish to copy them to mdss you can use the
``--copyremote/-cr`` flag:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cr data

Equally, if you have deleted some files in your local directory that you
wish to copy back from mdss you can use the ``--copylocal/-cl`` flag:

::

    mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cl data

If there are files of unequal size you must specify ``-f/--force`` to
force copying the files, and in this case the decision of which
way the copy will go (from or to mdss) depends on specifying either of
the ``-cr`` or ``-cl`` options. e.g. to copy files of different size from the
local directory to mdss

::

   mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -cr -f data

If you want to only compare files matching a certain pattern use the
``-m/--match`` option, which uses shell 
`globbing <http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/globbingref.html>`_
syntax and only files matching that pattern will be checking and optionally copied

::

   mdssdiff -p personal/me -r -m "*.bin" data
